So my name is Lucas Ruebbelke.
I've been a principal engineer for
many years and done a lot of work for
anywhere from startups to
Fortune 100 companies.
And the goal of Enterprise Angular is
that when you start to
program in a context
where there's scale, things change.
What I'm hoping to target
is developers that not only
wanna learn how to write
high-quality code in Angular.
But also to start to be exposed and
understand the principles that
really factor into just building
large-scale applications and
what that looks like and the architecture.
Now, doing enterprise development
without an enterprise
is a little bit tricky as well
as it can be very overwhelming.
And so this is where you'll
notice on the companion site and
the repository, it's enterprisey.
And so what I'm hoping to do is, for
those who are curious to learn how
to build enterprise products and
applications that were writing code,
but we're just being a little
bit more enterprisey about it.
We're going to start at a high
level of abstraction and work down.
And with that said, the first thing
that we're going to start with,
and this is incredibly important,
is we're going to talk about
the domain and domain-driven design.
From there,
we're going to talk about monorepos
in tooling, and then micro-frontends.
And moving on to reactive architecture,
state management,
standalone components, and then we
are going to get into unit testing,
end-to-end testing, performance and
tuning, and deploying.
One of the things that I've learned in my
years as a programmer is, there's this
arc that you follow in
your career that when
you start as a new programmer,
the tension and
the challenge is trying to
figure out how things work.
And ultimately, your focus shifts
on to how do things work together.
And so this is where somebody who
is like a principal engineer or
an architect that they spend
a lot of time thinking about,
not how things work, but
how they work together.
And I would go as far as to say
that if you were to continue up
the corporate ladder to
becoming executive leadership,
and at the highest ranks
of an organization,
well suddenly your job starts to shift
into how do people work together?
And how do you get
people to work together,
to make the things work together,
to make the things work.
As you do this, the abstraction
layers just keep getting higher and
higher and higher and more conceptual.
When you are starting in
you're building a little app,
your entire focus is just
right there on the app itself.
But then I remember when AngularJS
came out, the top question on
Stack Overflow for years was,
how do two controllers talk to each other.
Is that there was clearly a need to
divide these controllers, but then what?
How do they communicate together?
And so not only are we focusing
on how things work together and
fit together, but how do we divide
them in a way that makes sense,
that we're not creating coupling,
but we're encouraging cohesion,
but we're doing it in a way that promotes
collaboration and communication.
And so
as we get into domain-driven design,
this is a topic that, I think I've
always been passionate about it,
but I didn't quite have
the semantics in place to
really understand kind
of the importance of it.
But, when you talk about
domain driven design,
ultimately it's about how do
you conceptually divide and
organize your business
domain in a way that you can
then write your code
to pattern the domain.
And I've seen a lot of really bad
things happen or costly things or
cumbersome things, just a lot of
problems when you have a code base
that is not reflective of the business
domain that it's actually operating in.
Because you might have a portion of
the business domain that needs to change,
but because the code doesn't
represent that, to go and
make that code change is
exponentially expensive.
And one of the companies
that I've worked for,
they're spending a ton of money breaking
up their monolith into microservices.
And why are they doing that?
Because it's simply too hard
to make a change in one piece.
It's like Jenga, the game where
you've got the little blocks,
and if you just do one wrong,
the whole thing tips over.
Everything is bundled together and
it's very hard to make changes.
It's very hard to move and to innovate.
And it's because coupling is bad, as a
result, it makes communication cumbersome.
And I believe that when you get
your business stakeholders,
the people that understand
the business domain,
and the engineers in a room, and
they are clear that they have
a conceptual understanding and
an agreement on what the domain is,
and what it's supposed to do.
That sets the stage for
establishing what we call a ubiquitous
language where everybody's using
words that mean the same thing.
That we understand when we say case, or
flight, or these different words
within the business domain,
specifically what it means and
in the context that it means.
And these conversations, I think for
cowboys who wants to just run in code is,
I understand that on the surface,
maybe it's not super exciting.
There's nothing quite as exciting as,
my gosh, it's a green field and
I'm gonna run into the green field and
I'm just gonna write code, but
oftentimes the best code that we write
is the code that we don't write at all.
And the greatest thing that
we can have is, as engineers,
is a clear understanding of
the business domain that we're
operating in,
where the lines of division are.
And I would say, if you want to level up
and really kinda go to the next level,
understand how they fit together to
serve the business and to drive value.
Is that when you have an engineer that can
actually talk about business outcomes,
that is incredibly valuable and
non-technical people
respond very well to that.
So this is where we're starting very high.
And we're going to talk about domains for
just a moment.
And my goal is to write
as much code as possible.
But before we do that,
we have to have a clear understanding
of what we're working in.